We've seen throughout this course that
JavaScript can be somewhat liberal about
things when it comes to what it allows.
There is a way that you may have
heard of to opt in, to tell
the JavaScript engine that you would like
it to process your code in a stricter way,
to be more regimented,
to be pickier about what it lets you do.
Now this doesn't solve every
possible case where JavaScript
is more liberal, because JavaScript
is a very flexible language.
And with flexibility,
comes a lack of rules, sometimes.
But strict mode can help you prevent
errors under certain circumstances.
Let's show you one right now.
Let's supposed that I
declare a variable person.
And then I go to set its value.
But let's suppose that
I mistype the variable.
And I put persom instead of person.
It's really easy to do.
And fairly easy to not notice when
you're in the midst of coding.
So let's console.log(persom).
[SOUND] What do you
think's going to happen?
Do you think this is going to error?
Let's see.
[SOUND] Nope.
Persom exists.
I have an empty object.
It's sitting on the global
object window.persom.
And is also window.person,
which is undefined because I never set it,
because I mistyped the variable.
That can cause some really squirrely
errors that are tough to track down.
So JavaScript has an option.
And you're quite literally telling the
JavaScript engine to please be stricter,
to implement some extra rules when you
parse my code, when you try to execute it.
And so use strict.
One of the things, one of its most
useful aspects, when you opt in
to using the strict version of JavaScript,
is that it doesn't let this happen.
You must declare a variable in
order to set it equal to anything,
in order to use it.
So, instead, I get.
Persom is not defined,
uncaught reference error.
So that's good.
You use strict as literally a string.
It's a string called use strict, and
it must go either at the top of your file,
or at the top of a function.
Cuz you can make a function
be executed with use strict,
essentially a new execution context
to have its code run with use strict,
and not the rest of the file, not the
global execution context or other context.
So if I mimicked what I just did,
[SOUND] and I got rid of use strict,
use strict would have to be at the top
if I wanted to use it everywhere.
If I got rid of it so it's not executing
globally with these strict rules.
What's going to happen?
Well, let me go ahead and
call logNewPerson after this.
So I've declared a person,
mistyped the name, so
I have a different variable set equal to
an empty object and I'm outputting it.
Then I'm calling logNewPerson,
which generates a new execution context,
and the first line of code that
it runs across is use strict.
So, when this is executing or
this execution context is executing,
I'm going to see that the JavaScript
engine uses stricter rules,
won't allow certain things
as it executes the code.
So I have the same set-up,
and let's see what happens.
[SOUND] So the global, go ahead and
did it because I wasn't
opted in to use strict but
I put the string use strict
as my first line and
it has to be the first
line on my function and so
my function executed with
the stricter variant.
The JavaScript engine was stricter
about things, and threw an error.
So you may be asking why didn't we use,
use strict throughout this entire course?
Because this is an opt in.
This is an extra feature.
And not every JavaScript engine
implements use strict the same way.
They don't all agree on every
rule that they'll implement.
So this is an extra thing, and
not something you can 100% rely on.
But it can be useful.
So you might want to use it at
the top of your file or functions.
Also a note there,
if you have several JavaScript files, and
then as part of your pushing them
to production, you concatenate and
minify them, that's very common
where you put all of your JavaScript
files together in one file so
it only has to be downloaded once.
If that first file has
use strict at the top,
then the whole thing will be processed
using that strict JavaScript engine flag.
So you might cause yourself some
trouble if other JavaScript
files don't follow the strict rules.
All right, well, that aside,
this is something you can just drop
into your code, and it just works.
The JavaScript engine knows what to do.
There's a wonderful link,
again on the Mozilla Developer Network,
under Strict mode.
It talks about how Strict mode is
implemented, at least in Firefox and
many other browsers.
I'll leave this link for
you in the next lecture.
Let's move on.